h1. Changelog for tabulatr

We now allow column presets:

  <pre>  
  Tabulatr.config do |config|
    #...
    config.column_presets({
    config.column_presets({
      :action_column => {:width => '100px'},
      :smallint => { :width =>  '55px', :filter_width =>  '30px', :align => 'right' },
      :id  =>      :smallint,
      :sid =>      { :width => '200px', :filter_width => '170px', :filter => :like },
      :title =>    { :filter => :like },
      :count =>    { :map => false, :width => '40px', :filter => false, :align => 'right' },
      :moo =>      { :width =>  '155px', :filter_width =>  '120px', :align => 'right' }
    })
  end
  </pre>
  
Now, every column will check whether there is as entry corresponding to its name in this table and get the content as 'default' options.

  <pre>
    <%= table_for @regions do |t|
      t.column :id
      t.column :sid
      # ...
    end %>
  </pre>

so, the :id column has all the options defined above. The :action_column entry is used for 'action' columns. 

But even better, you can use arbitrary presets:

  <pre>
  t.column :foo, :preset => :moo
  </pre>
  
gets the :moo preset.

h2. 0.4.2

* Fixed two more bugs breaking ruby 1.8 compatibility. (Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/moabite">moabite</a> for reporting)

h2. 0.4.1

* Fixed a "bug" breaking ruby 1.8 compatibility. (Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/moabite">moabite</a> for reporting)

h2. 0.4.0

* Mongoid now really works.
* A lot of cleanup in the finder code (million thanks to <a href="https://github.com/plukevdh">plukevdh</a>)
* You can use <tt>table_for</tt> for 'normal' arrays that weren't found with <tt>find_for_table</tt>.
* Added a :name_mapping option to find_for_table to allow filtering by compund expressions, example:

  <pre>
  @customers = Customer.find_for_table(params,
    name_mapping: {
      name: '("addresses"."firstname" || \' \' || "addresses"."lastname")',
      address: '("addresses"."street" || \' \' || "addresses"."zip_code" || \' \' || "addresses"."city")'
    },
    default_order: 'updated_at desc'
  )
  </pre>

* Added Mysql2Adapter to the ActiveRecord connection list (thanks to <a href="https://github.com/AaronLasseigne">AaronLasseigne</a>).
* Monkeypatch mongoid only if it is present. (thanks to <a href="https://github.com/rwz">rwz</a>)

h2. 0.3.0

* Converted into a Rails 3.1 engine and moved css and images to use the new asset pipeline. Works with 3.0.x -- 'opefully. Thanks to all that reported the problem.
* Header cells are now auto translated. Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/niedhui">niedhui</a>!

h2. 0.2.1

* Fixed a ruby 1.8 syntax issue. (Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/TBAA">TBAA</a> for reporting.)

h2. 0.2.0

* Mongoid can also be used in place of ActiveRecord
* fixed handling of the primary_key column and name
* Added dom_id to tables tr. Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/sterrym">sterrym (Tim Glen)</a>!
* Added note on "Request-URI Too Large error" to README

h2. 0.1.3

* nicer table headers. Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/troya2" target="_blank">troya2 (Troy Anderson)</a>!

h2. 0.1.2

* Fixed bug with nil exception on 'empty' belongs_to association. Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/dgm" target="_blank">dgm</a>!

h2. 0.1.1

* Fixed bug with "Select ..." buttons introduced in 0.1.0.
* Added tests for these buttons.

h2. v0.1.0

* new <tt>find_for_table</tt> option <tt>:stateful</tt>. If

<pre>
  MyFancyModel.find_for_table params, :stateful => session
</pre>

is given, the current sorting, filtering, selecting and paging information is stored to the session and restored when reopened. Great for procession specifically filtered lists.

h2. v0.0.5 (2011-03-28)

* new column option :map (defaults to true) to disable automatic mapping on the enries of the association as in

  <pre>
  <%= table_for @products do |t|
    ...
    t.association :tags, :title # mapped to all tags
    t.association :tags, :count, :map => false # called on the list-of-tags
  end %>
  </pre>


h2. v0.0.4 (2011-03-27)

* fixed the path to paging/sorting images installed by generator. Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/sdsykes" target="_blank">sdsykes</a>!